# Plan-Your-Lift
I developed a workout planner app with a simple and user-friendly user interface that focuses on letting the user design and customise their workout the way they want to and then track their workouts. The app is called “Plan Your Lift” and was made in Android Studio using Java. This was the first time I used Android studio or developed an Android app.
The aim of my project was to create a workout planner app with a simple and user- friendly user interface that focuses on letting the user design and customise their workout the way they want to. The app is called “Plan Your Lift” and was made in Android Studio using Java. The main functionality of the app lets the user create as many workouts as they want to and customise them by adding exercises to each workout. In the app, the user enters the name of the exercise they are adding instead of choosing it from a list as this cuts down the time they need to spend on making the workout as well as just letting them name each exercise what they want as a lot of people might use alternative names for exercises they do which will not be on a generic list of exercises. As an international student I also thought about people who might not know English that well so would not be able to find the exercises they want from a list so letting them type it would make the app a lot more user friendly and could be used by a bigger population. Every choice I made while creating the app was with the user in mind and I wanted to make sure I made everything as customisable as possible while also being easy to use. The second most important functionality is being able to tack the workout you are doing at the moment, so the app displays the exercises of the workout you choose to do and lets you follow along while you work out with custom timed rest breaks and a timer for the whole workout.
The user has to make an account to use the app, as this way, they can have all of their workouts and data saved in a database. Saving all of the data to a database makes sure that if the user deletes the app or has to get a new phone, they can just log back in and all of their data will be present. The user also has the choice to delete their account which erases their data from the database. The database used in the project was the Cloud Firestore database from Firebase.
As a person who uses workout planner apps, I very quickly realised that there are not that many good, simple workout planner apps out there as so many of them focus on advertisements, pre-made workouts and having a lot of different features which make it harder for users to be able to just focus on the one thing they are using the app for, which is planning and saving their workouts. As a person whose first language is not English, there are a lot of exercises that I have wanted to add to my workouts in the past and could not as they were in another language so I had to compromise and find similar workouts. Another reason why I wanted to make my own workout planner app is that I, and so many people I know, like naming our exercises alternative names and
a lot of other apps do not allow that or make the process of custom naming an exercise very complicated. With so many new fitness app users this year and a lot of people working out at home, I wanted to make sure my app was very user friendly and allowed people to customise any workout even if it is not a conventional gym workout and just a simple home workout without equipment.
The primary aim of the project was to create a workout planner app in Android Studio that lets the user create new workouts and edit them as much as they want to. These workouts are saved to a Firestore database in real-time as the user makes changes. The target users of the app are people who want to plan and customise their workouts and then see them while working out instead of having to use pen and paper, an excel sheet or just their memory. The app can be used by people working out at the gym, as well as people working out at home or outside will less equipment as there are not pre-made workouts or pre-made exercise lists, so the user can add any exercise they want to their workout even if it is not a conventional exercise. The name chose for the app is “Plan Your Lift” as I wanted to keep it simple and to the point.
